---
title: "CWD30: A Comprehensive and Holistic Dataset for Crop Weed Recognition in Precision Agriculture"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-05-17-CWD30
excerpt: "In this study, we present the CWD30 dataset, a large-scale, diverse, holistic, and hierarchical dataset tailored for crop-weed recognition tasks in precision agriculture."
date: 2023-05-17
venue: 'arXiv:2305.10084'
paperurl: 
citation: 
---

> ## Authors
> [Talha Ilyas<sup>1,2</sup>](https://mr-talhailyas.github.io//), [Dewa Made Sri Arsa<sup>1,2,3</sup>](https://dewamsa.github.io), [Khubaib Ahmad<sup>1,2</sup>](), [Yong Chae Jeong<sup>1</sup>](), [Okjae Won<sup>4</sup>](), [Jong Hoon Lee<sup>2</sup>](), [Hyongsuk Kim<sup>2,*</sup>](https://wz3.jbnu.ac.kr/jbnuProfl/eeieng/295/2522/artclView.do)
> <sup>1</sup>Division of Electronics and Information Engineering, Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju 54896, Republic of Korea
> 
> <sup>2</sup>Core Research Institute of Intelligent Robots, Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju 54896, Republic of Korea
>
> <sup>3</sup>Department of Information Engineering, Universitas Udayana, Bali, Indonesia
>
> <sup>4</sup>Production Technology Research Division, Rural Development Administration, National Institute of Crop Science, Miryang, Republic of Korea
>
> <sup>*</sup>Corresponding author: hskim@jbnu.ac.kr


> ## Abstract
> The growing demand for precision agriculture ne- cessitates efficient and accurate crop-weed recognition and clas- sification systems. Current datasets often lack the sample size, diversity, and hierarchical structure needed to develop robust deep learning models for discriminating crops and weeds in agricultural fields. Moreover, the similar external structure and phenomics of crops and weeds complicate recognition tasks. To address these issues, we present the CWD30 dataset, a large-scale, diverse, holistic, and hierarchical dataset tailored for crop-weed recognition tasks in precision agriculture. CWD30 comprises over 219,770 high-resolution images of 20 weed species and 10 crop species, encompassing various growth stages, multiple viewing angles, and environmental conditions. The images were collected from diverse agricultural fields across different geographic loca- tions and seasons, ensuring a representative dataset. The dataset’s hierarchical taxonomy enables fine-grained classification and facilitates the development of more accurate, robust, and gen- eralizable deep learning models. We conduct extensive baseline experiments to validate the efficacy of the CWD30 dataset. Our experiments reveal that the dataset poses significant challenges due to intra-class variations, inter-class similarities, and data imbalance. Additionally, we demonstrate that minor training modifications like using CWD30 pretrained backbones can sig- nificantly enhance model performance and reduce convergence time, saving training resources on several downstream tasks. These challenges provide valuable insights and opportunities for future research in crop-weed detection, fine-grained classification, and imbalanced learning. We believe that the CWD30 dataset will serve as a benchmark for evaluating crop-weed recognition algorithms, promoting advancements in precision agriculture, and fostering collaboration among researchers in the field.

[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10084)
[Code](https://github.com/Mr-TalhaIlyas/CWD30)
